.TH SHARDS "1" "September 2018" "shards 0.9.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shards \- dependency manager for the Crystal Language
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B
shards
[\fI<options>\fR...] [<\fIcommand\fR>]
.PP
If no \fIcommand\fR is given, \fBinstall\fR will be run by default.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Manages dependencies for Crystal projects and libraries with reproducible
installs across computers and systems.
.PP
Requires the presence of a \fIshard.yml\fR file. See \fBshard.yml\fR(5) for
more information on its format.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
\fBbuild\fR [\fI<targets>\fR] [\fI<build_options>\fR...]
.RS 4
Builds the specified \fItargets\fR in \fBbin\fR path. If no targets are specified, all are built.
This command ensures all dependencies are installed, so it is not necessary to run \fBshards install\fR before.
.PP
All \fIbuild_options\fP following the command are delegated to \fBcrystal build\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fBcheck\fR
.RS 4
Verifies that all dependencies are installed and requirements are satisfied.
.SS
.RS 4
Exit status:
.PP
.TP 3
\fB0\fR
dependencies are satisfied,
.TP 3
\fB1\fR
dependencies aren't satisfied.
.RE
.PP
\fBinit\fR
.RS 4
Initializes a default \fIshard.yml\fR in the current folder.
.RE
.PP
\fBinstall\fR
.RS 4
Resolves and installs dependencies into the \fIlib\fR folder. If not already
present, generates a \fIshard.lock\fR file from resolved dependencies, locking
version numbers or Git commits.
.PP
Reads and enforces locked versions and commits if a \fIshard.lock\fR file is
present. The \fBinstall\fR command may fail if a locked version doesn't match
a requirement, but may succeed if a new dependency was added, as long as it
doesn't generate a conflict, thus generating a new \fIshard.lock\fR file.
.RE
.PP
\fBlist [--tree]\fR
.RS 4
Lists the installed dependencies and their versions. Specifying \fI--tree\fR
will list nested dependencies in a tree manner, instead of a flattened list.
.RE
.PP
\fBlock [--update [<shards>]]\fR
.RS 4
Resolves dependencies and creates or updates the \fIshard.lock\fR file as per
the \fBinstall\fR command, but never installs the dependencies.
.PP
Specifying \fI--update\fR follows the same semantics as the \fBupdate\fR
command.
.RE
.PP
\fBprune\fR
.RS 4
Removes unused dependencies from \fIlib\fR folder.
.RE
.PP
\fBupdate [<shards>]\fR
.RS 4
Resolves and updates all dependencies into the \fIlib\fR folder again,
whatever the locked versions and commits in the \fIshard.lock\fR file.
.PP
Specifying \fIshards\fR will update these dependencies only, trying to be as
conservative as possible with other dependencies, respecting the locked versions
and commits in the \fIshard.lock\fR file.
.PP
Eventually generates a new \fIshard.lock\fR file.
.RE
.PP
\fBversion\fR [\fI<path>\fR]
.RS 4
Print the current version of the shard located at \fIpath\fR.
.RE
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-\-version\fR
.RS 4
Print the \fIshards\fR version.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Print usage synopsis.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-no-color\fR
.RS 4
Disable colored output.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-\-production\fR
.RS 4
Run in release mode. Development dependencies won't be installed and only
locked dependencies will be installed. Commands will fail if dependencies in
\fIshard.yml\fR and \fIshard.lock\fR are out of sync.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-q, \-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Decrease the log verbosity, printing only warnings and errors.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Increase the log verbosity, printing all debug statements.
.REAUTHOR
Written by Julien Portalier.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report shards bugs to <https://github.com/crystal-lang/shards/issues>
Crystal Language home page: <https://crystal-lang.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2018 Julien Portalier.
License Apache 2.0 <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBshard.yml\fR(5)
