.TH "SHARD\&.YAML" "5" "September 2015" "shards 0.7.2" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
shard.yml \- metadata for crystal applications and libraries
.SH SYNOPSYS
.I
shard.yml
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The file \fIshard.yml\fR is actually a YAML file with metadata about a Crystal
application or library. It must contain its \fIname\fR and \fIversion\fR and may
contain a description, license, a list of dependencies and development
dependencies.
.SH "REQUIRED ATTRIBUTES"
.TP
.B name
The name of the project.
.TP
.B version
The version number of the project.
.SH "OPTIONAL ATTRIBUTES"
.TP
.B authors
A list of authors, along with their contact email (optional).
.TP
.B description
A single line description of the project.
.TP
.B license
An OSI license name or an URL to a license file.
.TP
.B dependencies
A list of required dependencies.
.TP
.B development_dependencies
A list of dependencies required to work on the project, but not necessary to
build and run the project.
.TP
.B scripts
Script hooks to run. Only \fIpostinstall\fR is supported.
.SH "DEPENDENCY ATTRIBUTES"
.TP
.B
path
Local path to the dependency.
.TP
.B
git
Git repository URL.
.TP
.B
github
GitHub repository URL as user/repo.
.TP
.B
bitbucket
Bitbucket repository URL as user/repo.
.TP
.B
version
Version requirement. It may be prefixed by one of the following operators:
\fI<\fR, \fI<=\fR, \fI>\fR, \fI>=\fR or \fI~>\fR. It may also be \fI*\fR to match all
versions (default).
.TP
.B
branch
Install the specified branch of a Git dependency.
.TP
.B
commit
Install the specified commit of a Git dependency.
.TP
.B
tag
Install the specified tag of a Git dependency.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
name: shards
version: 1.2.3

authors:
  - Julien Portalier <julien@example.com>

description: |
  Dependency manager for the Crystal Language

dependencies:
  openssl:
    github: datanoise/openssl.cr
    branch: master

development_dependencies:
  minitest:
    git: https://github.com/ysbaddaden/minitest.cr.git
    version: "~> 0.1.0"

scripts:
  postinstall: make ext

license: MIT
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Julien Portalier.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBshards\fR(1)
