.TH SHARDS "1" "September 2015" "shards 0.7.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shards \- dependency manager for the Crystal Language
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B
shards
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fICOMMAND\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Manages dependencies for Crystal projects and libraries with reproducible
installs across computers and systems.
.PP
Requires the presence of a \fIshards.yml\fR file. See \fBshard.yml\fR(5) for
more information on its format.
.SH OPTIONS
\-h, \-\-help
.RS 4
Prints usage synopsis.
.RE
.PP
\-\-no-color
.RS 4
Disable colored output.
.RE
.PP
\-\-production
.RS 4
Run in release mode. Development dependencies won't be installed and only
locked dependencies will be installed. Commands will fail if dependencies in
\fIshard.yml\fR and \fIshard.lock\fR are out of sync.
.RE
.PP
\-q, \-\-quiet
.RS 4
Decreases the log verbosity, printing only warnings and errors.
.RE
.PP
\-v, \-\-verbose
.RS 4
Increases the log verbosity, printing all debug statements.
.RE
.PP
\-\-version
.RS 4
Prints the Shards version.
.RE
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
\fBinstall\fR
.RS 4
Resolves and installs dependencies into the \fIlib\fR folder. If not already
present, generates a \fIshard.lock\fR file from resolved dependencies, locking
version numbers or Git commits.
.PP
Reads and enforces locked versions and commits if a \fIshard.lock\fR file is
present. The \fBinstall\fR command may fail if a locked version doesn't match
a requirement, but may succeed if a new dependency was added, as long as it
doesn't generate a conflict, thus generating a new \fIshard.lock\fR file.
.RE
.PP
\fBupdate\fR
.RS 4
Resolves and updates all dependencies into the \fIlib\fR folder again,
whatever the locked versions and commits in the \fIshard.lock\fR file.
Eventually generates a new \fIshard.lock\fR file.
.RE
.PP
\fBcheck\fR
.RS 4
Verifies if all dependencies have been installed and requirements
satisfied.
.SS
Exit status:
.TP
0
dependencies are satisfied,
.TP
1
dependencies aren't satisfied.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Julien Portalier.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report shards bugs to <https://github.com/ysbaddaden/shards/issues>
Crystal Language home page: <https://crystal-lang.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2015 Julien Portalier.
License Apache 2.0 <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBshard.yml\fR(5)
